# TWG 2023-07-14

[Last meeting's minutes](https://github.com/haskellfoundation/tech-proposals/blob/main/meetings/2023-06-15.md)

## Present
 * davean scies
 * HÃ©cate
 * John Ericson
 * David Thrane Christiansen
 * Jack
 * Gershom

## Timing

We will move the meeting to this slot going forward as well.

## Updates on Projects

### Error Message Index

 * We have stats! Traffic is still low, though.
 * Most popular page is https://errors.haskell.org/messages/GHC-00158/
 * The SoH participant doing Cabal errors is about done too

### Security advisories

* Group is up and running, seems to be functioning reasonably well
* More data than tooling at his point, but hopefully the former spurs the later

## Vote on PR 51
https://github.com/haskellfoundation/tech-proposals/pull/51
 * Approved unanimously

## Vote on PR 50?
https://github.com/haskellfoundation/tech-proposals/pull/50

 * It would be nice if there were more structure
 * John suggested eliminating the error string
 * David pointed out that this would be a big problem for use cases like the playground and the Emacs mode
 * Gershom suggested including a list of types, module names, etc along with the string
 * David pointed the group at his comment about annotated strings/pretty printers, and pointed out that this could be implemented gradually
 * Stability of full structured-error representation in the schema would make stability of the format over time tricky
 * Gershom suggests approving as-is, with suggestions for future extensions that can be considered
 * We voted to approve, 5 in favor and one abstaining (due to having not read it enough)
 * Gershom will post result with feedback

## Better Supporting Cross-Cutting Discussions

 * David proposes adding another proposal category: inter-committee proposals. These would not be voted on by TWG, but would instead specify that they should be approved by other Haskell committees (e.g. CLC and GHC SC).
 * Gershom proposes not voting on RFCs instead. We should instead modify our procedure so that the committee may at its discretion not vote on an RFC.
 * Davean assents
 * Our job with RFCs that we don't vote on is still to take care of the legwork and communications
 * John: It's important that _someone_ vote on it before a merge. We should have a process that says that. 
 * Davean: We could also vote to delegate the voting to other bodies. Our job is to figure out who the appropriate voting stakeholders should be.
 * David will make a minor edit to the rules to make this clear, and propose it on the mailing list.
