# TWG 2023-03-09

[Last meeting's notes](https://github.com/haskellfoundation/tech-proposals/blob/main/meetings/2023-02-09.md)

## Present

* David Thrane Christiansen
* Laurent P. René de Cotret
* Hécate
* John Ericson
* davean
* gershom

## Apologies from David

## Updates on Projects

### Error message index

 * Dark mode
 * New contributors
 * David has not yet created the SSH keys

### Advisory DB

 * Waiting for Fraser
 * Feedback: we should be doing this with a mail forwarder on haskell.foundation rather than an individual's mail for anything official
    * FWIW Google makes this seem harder than it is

## Open Proposals

### Standard Library Reform
https://github.com/haskellfoundation/tech-proposals/pull/47

- Need buy-in from CLC and GHC folks before we can formally vote on this proposal.

- Not sure how to get 'approval' from stakeholders.

- David likes that the success criteria is bite-sized, rather than all-encompassing - having one portable definition moved to `base` from `ghc-base` and one non-portable definition hidden from `base` shows a template for incremental improvement.

- 1 person-month? John sees it as an upper bound. The PR exists and needs finishing.

- Gershom: If there is time left over, can do follow up work like moving portable code back to base. 

- Laurent asked whether we could plausibly fund this. David says "yes".

- Gershom complimented John on the resultant document - he feels comfortable sending it on.

- Hécate will contact CLC

- Laurent will e-mail GHC-devs about the proposal to get buy-in from Matthew Pickering, Ben Gamari, and Simon Peyton Jones.

### IDE/Test Integration
https://github.com/haskellfoundation/tech-proposals/pull/46

### Maximally decoupling Haddock and GHC
https://github.com/haskellfoundation/tech-proposals/pull/44

Students are interested as part of HSoC. No updates to discuss, but we're leaving it open due to student interest.

## Other Business

[GHC and MTL version discussion](https://github.com/haskell/core-libraries-committee/issues/136)

It would be nice to do just one breaking change at a time. John wants to hear our thoughts about having multiple bindists for different build configurations.

The big problem comes about when packaging systems like Nix and Stackage pin a specific global version.

Having bindists for lots of different build configurations will lead to difficulty diagnosing bug reports.

John will attempt to write a draft of a specific, narrow proposal for discussion on tick-tocking breaking changes to libraries and compilers. In other words, a major GHC release would (as much as possible) not change any library dependencies at all with respect to the prior release, and then the next major release would have library changes but no compiler changes. 
