# TWG 2023-02-09

[Last meeting's notes](https://github.com/haskellfoundation/tech-proposals/blob/main/meetings/2023-01-12.md)

## Present
 * Laurent
 * Davean
 * David
 * John
 * Luke
 * Gershom
 * Hécate

## Agenda

### Project Updates

#### Advisory DB

#### errors.haskell.org

Davean: how many visitors?

David: Unknown; we're hosted on GitHub pages and don't have something like Google Analytics on the page.

Gershom: What about hosting it on the haskell.org hosting? We can turn off IP addresses in logs if worried about GDPR.

Hécate: What about users in Iran and Cuba?

Gershom: Someone was blocking our CDN.

David: No objections to moving to haskell.org hosting. It would be nice to have stats about which pages are most popular and which 404s are most popular.

Davean: We can add awstats that extracts stats from a log in a cron job before the logs are deletes.

David: Who does this?

Davean: Send SSH key for uploader and for David to get SFTP access.

Gershom: Here's the haskell.org scripts: https://github.com/haskell-infra/www.haskell.org/tree/master/.github/workflows

Timeline:
 1. Davean does awstats, David sets up parallel uploading
 2. Then we debug the new host, when it works, transition DNS.



#### Timing
Can we move it 30 minutes later?

Works for all present.

### Open Proposals

#### Standard Library Reform
https://github.com/haskellfoundation/tech-proposals/pull/47

The proposal was just updated immediately prior to the meeting. There seems to be an emerging consensus that this is a good idea.

Remaining work is small details, read-through, then un-draft and submit for a vote.

David asked for specific requests for help, rather than general ones. Perhaps a synchronous read-through on a call could be possible?

Laurent volunteered for a synchronous read-through with John. They can also discuss Haddock.

#### IDE/Test Integration
https://github.com/haskellfoundation/tech-proposals/pull/46

David was supposed to send a quick email to get a Davean/santiweight conversation going, but failed to do so. Will do.


#### Maximally decoupling Haddock and GHC
https://github.com/haskellfoundation/tech-proposals/pull/44

We should probably close this right now, not because it's a bad idea, but because it exceeds current time resources. 

David: Is it worth spending some of the foundation resources to make it happen?

Gershom: could this understanding be converted to a GSoC proposal? Even if it's not done in GSoC, having it in that format is a great way to get volunteers in other contexts.

Laurent: Can definitely do this. Not sure whether it's too much work. Will try to make the proposal by Feb 12th. 

Gershom: Will give feedback. 

#### Other Business

##### `ghc-prim` cleanup

Laurent: On John's proposal, Bodigrim suggested looking at people to move from `ghc-prim` to `GHC.Exts` from `base`. Can we all work together to follow reverse dependencies from `ghc-prim` to point them at `base` instead?

Davean: We can't do this for everything, some programs just need `ghc-prim`. 

Gershom: Using Hackage reverse dependencies?

Laurent: yes! 14k packages transitively depend on `ghc-prim`.

We discussed a variety of packages that use it, but where we don't think that it should. 

Davean: most uses of `ghc-prim` are in fact incorrect, becuase using the unboxed type is equivalent to the boxed one, and programmers are copy-pasting.

John: we need to establish clear guidance as to what the best practice is here, rather than relying on our fractured oral histories.

Gershom: There's a give and take. The guidance will come from changing things and seeing what happens and can't be entirely _a priori_.

Can we scale this up? Instead of Laurent doing the work directly, what about doing the work but documenting it underway and recruiting further recruits as we go? The `prim` cleanup crew proposal?

Laurent: This is the idea for the proposal. Two parts:
1. Identify low-hanging fruits (`ghc-prim`, what else?)
2. Write the guidance

##### Hackage new account approval
Gershom: The Hackage approvals team gets burned out. Can we automate the process more? We need to avoid spam (manual measure). The current one is arduous - we need to increase the size of the team. We don't have an exact answer.

David: What about an arxiv style vouching process?

Gershom: Proposals welcome - can we write that up into a worked-through proposal? GSoC or otherwise?

Davean: We need to keep the current one for now. What about publishing the requirements on the page instead of sending them as an email so people can do the work up-front?
